Spell Blast:
Sorcery. Instant. Casting Cost: 50+ mana. Uncommon.
Attempts, through the direct manipulation of magic power, to
counter an enemy wizard’s spell as it is being cast. When spell blast
takes effect, a wizard must expend an amount of his or her own
magic power (from mana reserves) equal to the amount already put
into the enemy wizard’s spell to blast that spell out of existence. If
the wizard does not have enough mana, spell blast fails.
Spell Lock:
Sorcery. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 20 or 100 mana;
Upkeep: 1 mana/turn. Uncommon.
Prevents a target unit’s positive enchantments from being
dispelled. If the target unit is a summoned creature, it also protects
the bonds that keep it tied to the controlling wizard. Spell lock must
be dispelled before any further enchantments can be removed from
the creature or unit.
Spell of Mastery:
Arcane. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 5000 mana. Very Rare.
Gives a wizard, who successfully casts it, total control over all
magic in both planes, with the result that enemy wizards can no
longer cast spells. In addition, all summoned creatures are
banished. The most important effect of successfully casting spell of
mastery, however, is that by divesting all enemies of the ability to use
magic, the casting wizard wins the game!
Spell Ward:
Sorcery. City Enchantment. Casting Cost: 350 mana;
Upkeep: 5 mana/turn. Very Rare.
Envelops the target town in protective magic, providing the city
square with complete immunity from all overland spells of a specific
magic type (chaos, death, life, nature or sorcery—spell caster’s
choice). This protective influence bars combat spells of that warded
type from being cast, and magically prohibits creatures (whether
friendly or enemy) summoned from the warded realm from entering
the town.
Sprites:
Nature. Summoning. Casting Cost: 100 mana; Upkeep: 3 mana/turn.
Common.
Summons sprites. Sprites are small, flying forest creatures that
can hurl tiny magic attacks over long distances.
30
Star Fires:
Life. Instant Combat. Casting Cost: 10 mana. Common.
Causes a holy blaze of burning light from the stars (strength 15
magic attack) to fall upon a target chaos or death unit (no other
creatures can be affected).
Stasis:
Sorcery. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 250 mana. Rare.
Paralyzes all enemy units in a target map square for a minimum
of one turn. After the first turn a unit passes in stasis, it has one
opportunity per turn to free itself by successfully resisting (at a
penalty of five to resistance) the stasis field.
Stone Giant:
Nature. Summoning. Casting Cost: 450 mana; Upkeep: 9 mana/turn.
Rare.
Summons an enormous, wall-crushing stone giant. The massive
stone giant is impervious to stoning attacks and can hurl huge
boulders at its enemies.
Stone Skin:
Nature. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 10 or 50 mana;
Upkeep: 1 mana/turn. Common.
Causes a target unit’s skin to harden, increasing the unit’s
defense (shields) by one.
Storm Giant:
Sorcery. Summoning. Casting Cost: 10 or 50 mana;
Upkeep: 1 mana/turn. Rare.
Summons a lightning bolt-wielding storm giant. Storm giants not
only hurl vicious lightning bolts over long distances, they also use
lightning bolts when fighting hand-to-hand with their enemies.
Stream of Life:
Life. City Enchantment. Casting Cost: 300 mana;
Upkeep: 8 mana/turn. Rare.
Turns an ordinary friendly city into a fertile utopia. Population
growth rates double in the city and all units in the city heal
completely at the end of every game turn. The citizens are so
pleased with their town that unrest completely disappears!
Subversion:
Death. Instant. Casting Cost: 100 mana. Uncommon.
Creates a state of universal contempt toward the target enemy
wizard, causing his or her diplomatic relations with all other wizards
to suffer severely.
31
Summon Champion:
Arcane. Summoning. Casting Cost: 750 mana. Rare.
Summons a random powerful hero to the wizard’s enchanted
fortress. When summoned by this spell, the hero waives his or her
usual hiring fee, offering to join the wizard for free. Note that a
wizard is not obligated to accept the hero’s services. This spell
cannot be cast if you already have a full complement of six heroes
on your side.
Summon Hero:
Arcane. Summoning. Casting Cost: 300 mana. Uncommon.
Summons a random hero (less powerful than those summoned
by summon champion) to the wizard’s enchanted fortress. When
summoned by this spell, the hero offers to join the wizard without
requiring the usual initial gold payment. Note that a wizard is not
obligated to accept the hero’s services. This spell cannot be cast if
you already have six heroes on your side.
Summoning Circle:
Arcane. Instant. Casting Cost: 50 mana. Common.
Moves the target summoning circle (originally present in the city
with the wizard’s enchanted fortress) to a new city.
Suppress Magic:
Sorcery. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 50 mana;
Upkeep: 40 mana/turn. Very Rare.
Tries to prevent, with a strength 500 dispelling force,
all enemy
overland spells and enchantments.
Terror:
Death. Combat Enchantment. Casting Cost: 20 mana. Common.
Casts a pall of fear on all enemy units. During every combat turn,
each enemy unit must attempt (plus one bonus to resistance) to
overcome the terror that grips it, or cower in fear. When a unit is
cowering it cannot attack; however, the unit can still counterattack
when it is defending against melee attacks initiated by the enemy.
Time Stop:
Sorcery. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 1500 mana;
Upkeep: 150 mana/turn. Very Rare.
Stops the passage of time for all enemy wizards. The rest of the
world stops as well. Only the casting wizard may move units, and
attack as normal. He or she must pay maintenance on this spell, but
only on this spell!
32
Tranquility:
Life. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 1100 mana;
Upkeep: 10 mana/turn. Very Rare.
Tries to prevent all chaos magic spells, requiring them to resist
the forces of life as if a strong disjunction—strength 500—had just
been cast.
Transmute:
Nature. Instant. Casting Cost: 60 mana. Uncommon.
Transforms coal and ores in hills and mountains into different
types: coal to gems, iron to gold and silver to mithril. The
transmutation is permanent.
True Light:
Life. Combat Enchantment. Casting Cost: 20 mana. Common.
Calls upon the forces of life magic to shine a holy light upon a
field of battle. All creatures of life are bathed in the light’s glow and
gain one to their attack strengths (swords), defense (shield), and
resistance (cross). Creatures of death are hampered by the
brightness, losing one to each of their attack strengths, defense, and
resistance. True light and darkness exert opposite effects and therefore
cancel each other’s effects.
True Sight:
Life. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 20 or 100 mana;
Upkeep: 2 mana/turn. Uncommon.
Endows a target normal unit with the gift of immunity to illusions
and allows the unit to see through wall of darkness.
Unicorns:
Life. Summoning. Casting Cost: 250 mana; Upkeep: 5 mana/turn.
Uncommon.
Calls a herd of magic unicorns. These lovely creatures can
teleport to any location on the battlefield and inspire their allies with
an increased ability to resist the effects of negative spells.
Vertigo:
Sorcery. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 25 mana. Uncommon.
Attempts to cause a target unit an acute attack of vertigo during
combat. Affected units suffer a penalty to hit of two (i.e., they have
a -20% chance to hit) and have more trouble defending than usual
(lose one to defense).
33
Wall of Darkness:
Death. City Enchantment. Casting Cost: 40 or 200 mana;
Upkeep: 5 mana/turn. Uncommon.
Surrounds a city with a wall of utter night, protecting the garrison
from ranged attacks and preventing all enemy units (without true
sight or immunity to illusions) from peering in. However, wall of darkness
does not prevent those inside from launching ranged attacks on
enemy units.
Wall of Fire:
Chaos. City Enchantment. Casting Cost: 30 or 150 mana;
Upkeep: 2 mana/turn. Common.
Calls upon the realm of chaos to surround a target city with a
magic wall of flames. While ranged attacks and flying units are not
affected, all non-flying creatures that attempt to breach this wall
suffer from a strength five magic attack.
Wall of Stone:
Nature. City Enchantment. Casting Cost: 50 mana. Common.
Surrounds a target city with a sturdy stone wall.
War Bears:
Nature. Summoning. Casting Cost: 70 mana; Upkeep: 2 mana/turn.
Common.
Summons a group of ferocious bears.
Warp Creature:
Chaos. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 18 mana. Common.
Attempts to mutate all creatures within a target unit during
combat. Target creatures suffer a penalty of one to their resistance
when trying to withstand being warped. Mutated or warped creatures
suffer from one of the following degenerative changes: half strength
attacks, half strength defense, or no magic resistance.
Warp Lightning:
Chaos. Instant Combat. Casting Cost: 35 mana. Rare.
Sends a chain of lightning bolts ripping through a target unit. The
first bolt of lightning has a strength of 10, the second has a strength
of nine, and so on, until all figures in the unit are dead or the chain
of lightning is exhausted (reduced to a strength of zero).
Warp Node:
Death. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 75 mana. Rare.
Corrupts a magic node, causing it to suck five mana per turn out
of the controlling wizard’s magic power reserve, instead of
contributing to it! A warped node can only be returned to normal
function by disenchant area or disenchant true.
34
Warp Reality:
Chaos. Combat Enchantment. Casting Cost: 50 mana. Rare.
Distorts
all (both friendly and enemy) non-chaos units’ perception
of reality. Affected units suffer a penalty to hit of two (–20%).
Warp Wood:
Chaos. Instant Combat. Casting Cost: 10 mana. Common.
Immediately twists and destroys all missile (bow symbol)
ammunition of a target normal group. There is no way to prevent the
effect of this spell.
Water Walking:
Nature. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 50 mana;
Upkeep: 1 mana/turn. Common.
Endows a figure with the ability to walk on water. The unit’s
movement speed remains unchanged.
Weakness:
Death. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 5 mana. Common.
Saps the strength out of a target unit’s creatures during combat.
All figures suffer a penalty of minus two to their melee, thrown and
ranged attack strengths. Units get no chance to resist this spell.
Web:
Nature. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 10 mana. Common.
Casts a sticky web over the creatures in a target unit. Creatures
stuck in this web may not move until they have destroyed the web.
The web has a total of 12 “hit points” (hearts, but no defenses) and
can only be destroyed by the trapped unit’s melee and magic ranged
attacks, both of which do their full force in damage against webs.
The sticky remnants of the web prevent flying units that were
trapped from flying for the remainder of the battle.
Wind Mastery:
Sorcery. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 400 mana;
Upkeep: 10 mana/turn. Uncommon.
Calls the wind to the aid of a wizard. All of the wizard’s ships,
including air ships and floating islands, may move at double their
normal speed, while the wind hinders the movement of ships
controlled by the wizard’s enemies, causing them to move at
half speed.
35
Wind Walking:
Sorcery. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 250 mana;
Upkeep: 20 mana/turn. Rare.
Gives a target unit the power of flight (with a speed of three). All
units stacked with wind walking creatures move at the same speed.
Wind walking exerts no effects during combat; although, units
stacked with wind walking creatures may fight over ocean squares
during combat (they appear with small islands under their feet
during combat).
Word of Death:
Death. Instant Combat. Casting Cost: 40 mana. Very Rare.
Calls upon the power of death to attempt to instantly destroy all
creatures within a target unit. Units suffer a penalty of minus five to
resistance when trying to withstand this demonic utterance.
Word of Recall:
Sorcery. Instant. Casting Cost: 20 mana. Common.
Transports a target friendly unit back to the wizard’s enchanted
fortress. If there is no space in the enchanted fortress for the recalled
unit, one of the units already occupying the city square is displaced
onto a neighboring land square.
Wrack:
Death. Combat Enchantment. Casting Cost: 40 mana. Rare.
Wracks all non-death creatures with the agonies of darkness
every combat turn. All enemy figures that cannot resist this pain
lose one hit point.
Wraith:
Death. Summoning. Casting Cost: 500 mana; Upkeep: 5 mana/turn.
Rare.
Summons lifestealing, non-corporeal wraiths.
Wraithform:
Death. Creature Enchantment. Casting Cost: 30 or 150 mana;
Upkeep: 3 mana/turn. Rare.
Gives a target unit weapon immunity and an insubstantial wraith-
like form (the unit becomes non-corporeal).
Zombie Mastery:
Death. Global Enchantment. Casting Cost: 800 mana;
Upkeep: 8 mana/turn. Rare.
Causes all normal units that die in any combat to become, after
the battle ends, mindless zombies under the control of the casting
wizard. These zombies do not heal in
any way, nor can they be
raised from the dead.